Fixing what ain't broke: Ubuntu's theme debacle
===============================================

date

:   2011-08-13 05:11

author

:   admin

category

:   Uncategorized

slug

:   288

status

:   draft

<div class="zemanta-img" style="margin: 1em; display: block;">
\[caption id="" align="alignright" width="240" caption="(I suppose I
should have added the new theme.)"\][![Ubuntu wordmark
official](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/67/TheUbuntuName.svg/300px-TheUbuntuName.svg.png){width="240px"
height="54px"}](http://commons.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:TheUbuntuName.svg)\[/caption\]

</div>
Ubuntu's slogan is "Linux for Human Beings". While it's clich√© to say
that people don't like change, it seems to me that most people are very
willing to accept change when it's worthwhile. And the converse is also
true: when a change is not worthwhile or the benefit is not explained,
change becomes an annoyance and the decision to change is derided. And
so it seems with the Canonical theme change in Lucid Lynx (10.04) which
made the meddlesome and poorly-explained decision to move the window
controls from the right to the left.

[My wife](http://beaconcoaching.com) has been using Ubuntu for years.
When I upgraded her from Jaunty to Lucid recently, literally her first
comment was "Can we move the buttons back? I was used to them where they
were." \[A: Yes. See below.\]

If you're new to a system, it probably doesn't matter. Certainly, if
you're coming from

-- when the the juice is worth the squeeze, as my dad would say

<div id="_mcePaste">
I can't imagine why this change was deemed important at all, let alone
so important that it became the default layout even for existing users.
Moreover, I can't help but wonder whether this will mark the point in
Ubuntu's popularity at which it is drawn into irrelevant hyperpolishing
at the expense of losing focus on function. Don't get me wrong -- I like
the aesthetic of the new theme, but I was used to looking for window
buttons in the upper right and I don't see what I get out of their now
being on the left. Fortunately, focus on functionality has not been lost
yet: Lucid alpha 3 is way more stable than Karmic production in my
hands, boots extremely quickly, and has lots of other genuine
improvements.&lt;/p&gt;

</div>
<div id="_mcePaste">
&lt;p&gt;If you're new to a system, it probably doesn't matter.
Certainly, if you're coming from &lt;/p&gt;

</div>
<div id="_mcePaste">
&lt;p&gt;&lt;br&gt;&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;-- when the the juice is worth the
squeeze, as my dad would say&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;P.S. It's trivial to
revert to the old layout. From the command line,
do&nbsp;&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;\[code\]&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;gconf -s
/apps/metacity/general/button\_layout -t string
menu:minimize,maximize,close&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;\[/code\]&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;&lt;br&gt;&lt;/p&gt;

</div>
I can't imagine why this change was deemed important at all, let alone
so important that it became the default layout even for existing users.
Moreover, I can't help but wonder whether this will mark the point in
Ubuntu's popularity at which it is drawn into irrelevant hyperpolishing
at the expense of losing focus on function. Don't get me wrong -- I like
the aesthetic of the new theme, but I was used to looking for window
buttons in the upper right and I don't see what I get out of their now
being on the left. Fortunately, focus on functionality has not been lost
yet: Lucid alpha 3 is way more stable than Karmic production in my
hands, boots extremely quickly, and has lots of other genuine
improvements.&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;If you're new to a system, it probably
doesn't matter. Certainly, if you're coming from
&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;&lt;br&gt;&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;-- when the the juice is
worth the squeeze, as my dad would say&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;P.S. It's
trivial to revert to the old layout. From the command line,
do&nbsp;&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;\[code\]&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;gconf -s
/apps/metacity/general/button\_layout -t string
menu:minimize,maximize,close&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;\[/code\]&lt;/p&gt;&lt;p&gt;&lt;br&gt;&lt;/p&gt;

<div class="zemanta-pixie" style="margin-top: 10px; height: 15px;">
[![Reblog this post \[with
Zemanta\]](http://img.zemanta.com/reblog_e.png?x-id=d124b5c9-a706-4fa0-ab35-95b3eb9082ee){.zemanta-pixie-img}](http://reblog.zemanta.com/zemified/d124b5c9-a706-4fa0-ab35-95b3eb9082ee/)

<script src="http://static.zemanta.com/readside/loader.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
</div>

